Jane Austen famously never married, but she did have admirers. The best known of these is Tom Lefroy, a clever young Irishman whom she met in December 1795. He had moved to London to study law and was spending the Christmas holidays with his uncle and aunt who lived in Ashe, near Steventon.

Jane had just turned 20 and was a bright, lively, pretty girl. Like her much-loved heroine Elizabeth Bennet, she enjoyed music and dancing, wit, laughter and lively conversation.

Although Tom only stayed in Hampshire for a few weeks, the pair met frequently at Christmas balls and parties. They danced, chatted and flirted, until Tom went back to London to resume his studies. Jane went back to work too – it was around then that she began writing First Impressions (later published as Pride and Prejudice).

It has been argued that Jane was in love with Tom, and that he left her heartbroken; however this seems unlikely. The tone of her letters to Cassandra is light and playful; she does not sound genuinely disappointed. But then we know that she was a realist. She might be romantic in her novels, arguing for mutual love in marriage, but she was also practical and knew how essential a sufficient income was to domestic happiness. Neither Tom nor Jane had the money to make a match possible.

We don’t even know if Jane wanted to marry, which would almost certainly have meant giving up any chance to be a writer. She certainly didn’t pursue marriage at all costs, as some of her female characters do. In 1802 she received an offer of marriage from the rich brother of a friend, that she accepted for one night and then declined. Her great love was her writing. Her books were her children – she famously referred to Pride and Prejudice as her ‘darling child’.

And what of Tom Lefroy? He returned to London and in 1796 became engaged to a Miss Mary Paul, the sister of a friend; they married two years later. He rose through the ranks to become Lord Chief Justice of Ireland. Years later, when asked about Jane Austen, he said that he had loved her, although he qualified this by saying it was ‘a boyish love’.

So where does that leave us? A pretty girl and her ‘Irish friend’. A young couple, ‘dancing and sitting down together’. Six novels, each full of men who flirt, dance, joke, behave well, behave badly… the men she knew in life surely went into this mix, and fed her imagination as she created Darcy, Knightley, Wentworth and the others… some of the most eligible gentlemen in the whole of literature.